Adding server dependency information (#204)
temporalio/documentation: docs/server-versions-dependencies.md

---
id: server-versions-and-dependencies
title: Versions and dependencies
sidebar_label: Versions & dependencies
---

## Overview

This page details some of the version specific requirements and dependencies needed to build and run an instance of Temporal.

All versions of Temporal require that [Go v1.15+](https://golang.org/dl/) is installed in the environment.

## Dependencies

> Temporal offers official support for and is tested against dependencies with the exact versions described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporal offers official support for, and is tested against, dependencies with the exact versions described below.
```

### Go Packages

| Temporal version | Go packages |
|------------------|-------------|
| [1.3.2](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.3.2) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.3.2/go.mod) |
| [1.3.1](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.3.1) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.3.1/go.mod) |
| [1.3.0](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.3.0) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.3.0/go.mod) |
| [1.2.2](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.2.2) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.2.2/go.mod) |
| [1.2.1](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.2.1) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.2.1/go.mod) |
| [1.1.1](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.1.1) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.1.1/go.mod) |
| [1.1.0](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.1.0) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.1.0/go.mod) |
| [1.0.0](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/tree/v1.0.0) | [go.mod](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/v1.0.0/go.mod) |

> ### Databases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Persistence
```

The only required dependency is a database, and there are multiple types of databases that are supported.

- **Cassandra v3.11**
- **MySQL v5.7**
- **PostgreSQL v9.6** (supported since Temporal v1.2.1)

> ### Search

Reviewer 2: What is search? I think this means visibility.

> ### Visibility via search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Visibility via search (optional)
```

is this the best name for this capability? we call it "workflow search" below too. can we standardize?

> The Workflow search feature is optional. Currently only ElasticSearch is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently only ElasticSearch is supported for Visibility via search.
```

- **ElasticSearch v6.8**

> ### Monitoring & observability
> 
> Temporal emits metrics by default in a format that is supported by Prometheus. Monitoring and observing those metrics is optional. Any software that can pull metrics that supports the same format could be used, but we only ensure it works with Prometheus and Grafana versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Monitoring & Observability (Optional)

Temporal emits metrics by default in a format that is supported by Prometheus. Any software that can pull metrics that supports the same format could be used, but we only ensure it works with Prometheus and Grafana versions.
```

Author: I am hesitant to add (required) or (optional) to the headers directly. I think it is OK to identify a dependency's requirement status in the description.
At present we are using sentence casing -

- **Prometheus >= v2.0**
- **Grafana >= v2.5**

> ### Sreaming

Reviewer 2: Sreaming, is it screaming or is it streaming? The world may never know

> Event streaming software as a dependency is only required when ElasticSearch is being used or when Temporal is deployed across multiple data centers, however in future releases of Temporal, third party event streaming software will likely cease to be needed as dependency for both.

Reviewer 2: I think calling this out as streaming is going to confuse a lot of people. Just put "Multi-cluster replication"

> ### Multi-cluster replication
> 
> Event streaming software as a dependency is only required when ElasticSearch is being used or when Temporal is deployed across multiple data centers. However, in future releases of Temporal, third party event streaming software will likely cease to be needed as dependency for both.
> 
> - **Kafka v2.1.1 & Zookeeper v3.4.6**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Multi-cluster Replication (Optional)

> Note: This is an experimental feature, most Temporal users do not need this

Event streaming software as a dependency is only required when ElasticSearch is being used or when Temporal is deployed across multiple data centers. However, in future releases of Temporal, third party event streaming software will likely cease to be needed as dependency for both.

- **Kafka v2.1.1 & Zookeeper v3.4.6**
```
